LDC USER AGREEMENT

Use of this version of the Buckwalter Arabic Morphological Analyzer Version 2
distributed by the Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) of the University of 
Pennsylvania is governed by the following terms: 

This User Agreement is provided by the Linguistic Data Consortium as a 
condition of accepting the databases named or described herein. 

This Agreement describes the terms between User/User's Research Group and 
Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC), in which User will receive material, as 
specified below, from LDC. The terms of this Agreement supercede the terms of 
any previous Membership Agreement in regard to the Buckwalter Arabic 
Morphological Analyzer Version 2.

Under this agreement User will receive one or more CD-ROM discs, DVDs, 
electronic files or other media as appropriate, containing linguistic tools, 
speech, video, and/or text data. User agrees to use the material received 
under this agreement only for non-commercial linguistic education and research
purposes. Unless explicitly permitted herein, User shall have no right to 
copy, redistribute, transmit, publish or otherwise use the LDC Databases for 
any other purpose and User further agrees not to disclose, copy, or 
re-distribute the material to others outside of User's research group. 

Government use, including any use within or among government organizations and
use by government contractors to produce or evaluate resources and 
technologies for government use, is permitted under this license.

Organizations interested in licensing the Buckwalter Arabic Morphological 
Analyzer Version 2 for commercial use should contact: 

   QAMUS LLC 
   448 South 48th St. 
   Philadelphia, PA 19143 
   ATTN: Tim Buckwalter 
   email: license@qamus.org

Except for Government use as specified above, commercial uses of this corpus 
include, but are not limited to, imbedded use of the Analyzer, Analyzer 
methods, Analyzer derived works, Analyzer output data, algorithms, lexicons, 
and downloaded data in a commercial product or a fee for service project; 
use of the Analyzer, Analyzer methods, Analyzer derived works, Analyzer 
output data, algorithms, and downloaded data to create or develop a 
commercial product or perform a fee for service project; use of Analyzer, 
Analyzer methods, Analyzer derived works, Analyzer output data, algorithms, 
lexicons, and downloaded data as a development tool to measure performance of
a commercial product or work product developed on a fee for service basis; 
redistribution of Analyzer, Analyzer methods, Analyzer derived works, Analyzer 
output data, algorithms, lexicons and downloaded data to any third party for 
imbedding in a commercial product or fee for service project, for deriving a 
commercial product or fee for service project, or for measuring the 
performance of a commercial product or fee for service project.

USER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT "CORPORA RECEIVED" ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS-IS"
BASIS AND THAT LDC, ITS HOST INSTITUTION THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, AND 
ITS DATA PROVIDERS AND CORPUS AUTHORS MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF 
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES 
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR CONFORMITY WITH 
WHATEVER DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED. IN NO EVENT SHALL LDC, ITS HOST 
INSTITUTION, DATA PROVIDORS OR CORPUS AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, DIRECT, 
INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE, INCIDENTAL OR OTHER DAMAGES, LOSSES, COSTS, 
CHARGES, CLAIMS, DEMANDS, FEES OR EXPENSES OF ANY NATURE OR KIND ARISING IN ANY
WAY FROM THE FURNISHING OF OR USER'S USE OF THE CORPORA RECEIVED. 
